Let's take a look at
another UserLAnd module.
We saw this a bit earlier
in the networking section,
it's called concat-stream.
You can use concat-stream when you need
something that's just gonna go against
many of the ideas of streams and just
concatenate something to fit into memory.
But, you got to make compromises
pretty often when you're programming.
So if we want something that will
just take all of the standard in,
and once the standard in is closed,
it'll give us back just a big blob of
memory like a buffer that
contains all of the data.
We can use concat-stream like this.
So I can show you what that looks like,
we could call it cat.js.
You require a concat-stream.
You might also do something,
like you might transform the input
before you pipe it to concat-stream.
But here I'm just going to
take process standard in,
pipe that to the concat-stream module.
concat-stream can take some different
options, but it always takes a function.
And the function is where you can
handle what the input is going to be.
So I can print out the body.length,
and this should work
similar to the wc-c command that counts
the number of bytes from standard in.
Although this is a very memory
intensive version of that
program because the WC program will
actually not buffer everything up.
It'll just count it as it
comes across the wire.
So we'll build an example that's
more memory efficient in a moment.
But for now,
here's just a simple way of doing that.
So, if I write some data to
standard in and then I press CTRL+D
to standard out, then I get
a count of how much data was sent.
So 20 bytes in this case.
>> So CTRL+D and standard in?
>> Yeah,
CTRL+ D from standard in is how you tell
the program that you're finished typing.
Whereas Ctrl+C is like just stop
the program, kill the program.
Stop has another meaning like SIG stop,
but yeah.
Okay, so a more practical use of when
you might want to use something like
concat-stream is, again, if you have
an HTTP server where you need to,
parse some format that's, maybe you
don't have a streaming parser for
it, you just have a parser that
works on big blocks of memory,
like you need to parse your encoded data.
So why don't we, we did this already
in the streaming section, but
I can type it out again, or in the network
section, but I can type that out again, so
we can, little HTTP server.
Maybe this time we'll do it properly and
we'll only let a certain
number of bytes go through and we can
use the through to module to do that.
So I think this would be a good example.
So we'll listen on the port,
now instead of process standard in,
we can use request.pipe to our concat.
So when you have an HTTP server,
the request object that you
get is a readable stream.
And I'll go more into the difference
between readable and writable and
duplex and transform streams in a moment.
But for now, so we have a readable
stream and a writable stream.
We can pipe the readable stream
into this concat-stream module.
And maybe we'll just
parse the form upload.
So we can use the christian
module qs.parse(body).
And, it just so happens that you
can pass an encoding of string,
in this case, which saves us having to
call to string on the body ourselves.
And then we'll just console log the parsed
parameters and call res.end.
So this will work but someone could
send us a 50 gigabyte input and
then our server would crash because
it would run out of memory.
So we'll fix that in just a moment.
But for now,
I just want to make sure that it works.
Yeah.
So the server works using concat-stream.
Now let's add our through stream to make
sure that we're not getting too much data.
So let's set a real hard limit
of 20 bytes, we're gonna
be really aggressive about making sure
that people don't send us too much data.
So what that might look like is, I'm just
gonna move stuff around a little bit so
it's easier to deal with,
so call that onbody.
This is another useful thing to do if
you find yourself in some callback
soup it's just to start naming
your functions a little bit.
And then it can be easier to work with.
So now we need to put a new
piece into our pipeline.
So we're going to use through
which you got to require.
And we're gonna have a counter function
that's just gonna count the number of
bytes that have been sent so far.
So call that function counter.
We write it like that, I guess.
Now we need to save some state outside.
So, actually, it might be better to
do that inside of the functions.
So we'll have the counter function take
care of creating the through stream.
We have our buffer, encoding and next.
And we also need to save
our piece of state,
that's the number of bytes
that we've seen so far.
So every time we get a buffer, we need to
increase the size by the buffer length.
And if the size is greater than 20,
we need to just end
the stream prematurely.
We can do that by not calling next, but
then we need to terminate the stream.
But in this case,
I'm just gonna call next with null,
which will just end the stream input.
So the body function will
actually see a truncated input.
We're not dealing with sending
a different response, but we could.
Otherwise we're just gonna call
next with the buffer, okay?
So, if I run this program now,
then it should truncate the input.
So, it works properly with the previous
input but now if I provide too much data,
like if I hold down the O key that
should be more than 20 bytes.
It says okay, but
you'll notice that now it's actually not
parsing the input because
the inputs have been truncated.
So, there we go.
I'll add that to the get repo and,
and we'll give everyone a little
bit of time to play around with this
example and see what's going on.
And then we'll talk more about
the different kinds of stream types.